---
simd: '0025'
title: Archiving snapshots on Arweave
authors:
- Joshua Benaron
  category: Standard/Meta
  type: Core
  status: Draft
  created: 2023-04-12
  feature: (fill in with feature tracking issues once accepted)
---


SIP-X: Storing Solana Snapshots on Arweave Paid by Inflation Emissions

## Abstract

This proposal outlines a mechanism for storing Solana's snapshots on Arweave, which will ensure that they are
stored securely and permanently, while also making them easily accessible for future use. The proposal also describes a
method for funding the storage costs using inflation emissions.

## Motivation

Storing Solana's snapshots on Arweave ensures that they are stored securely and permanently, while also making them
easily accessible for future use. However, storing data on Arweave incurs storage costs, which need to be paid for by
someone. This proposal suggests using a portion of the inflation emissions generated by the Solana blockchain to fund
the storage costs.

## Impact

Storing Solana's snapshots on Arweave ensures that they are stored securely and permanently, while also making them
easily accessible for future use. Funding the storage costs using a portion of the inflation emissions generated by the
Solana blockchain ensures that the costs are paid for in a sustainable and scalable manner. Additionally, it provides a
way for validators to contribute to the long-term viability of the Solana blockchain.

## Design

### Abstract

A possible solution is building a Geyser Plugin which takes the most recent snapshot and posts it to Bundlr. Bundlr
allows you to pay for uploads in SOL

An ideal design would be where the cost is covered by the network's inflation. The cost of archiving on Arweave would be
a small fraction of the annual inflation

## Backwards Compatibility

[TBD]

## Security Considerations

There will need to be some way to prove that the snapshot is valid and correct.

## Conclusion

Storing Solana's snapshots on Arweave ensures that they are stored securely and permanently, while also making them
easily accessible for future use. Funding the storage costs using a portion of the inflation emissions generated by the
Solana blockchain ensures that the costs are paid for in a sustainable and scalable manner. This proposal aims to start
a discussion on how to build a sustainable mechanism.